---
layout: paper
category: papers
title: "Jitter Aware Economic PDN Optimization with a Genetic Algorithm"
image: /assets/images/papers/jitter_aware_pdn_optimization.png
authors: Zhifei Xu, Zihao Wang, Yin Sun, Chulsoon Hwang, Hervé Delingette, Jun Fan
year: 2021
shortref: Xu et al. (2021). HAL.
journal: "IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques."
pdf: "https://hal.science/hal-03219748/file/IEEE_Journal_Submission_JItter_aware_PDN_study%20%283%29.pdf"
slides: 
supplement: 
github: 
doi: "10.1109/TMTT.2021.3087188"
external_link: "https://hal.science/hal-03219748"
type: substantive
---

# Abstract

The paper presents a novel approach to Power Distribution Network (PDN) optimization that takes into account jitter, a variation in the time delay of digital signals. The authors propose a Genetic Algorithm (GA) based method for optimizing the placement of decoupling capacitors in a PDN, considering both the target impedance and the Power Supply Induced Jitter (PSIJ). The proposed method is formulated as a non-linear optimization problem, where the variables include the selection and placement of capacitors. The authors demonstrate that their method can achieve an economic solution to the PDN design problem, minimizing both the number of decoupling capacitors and the PSIJ.

**Key Words**: Power Distribution Network, Jitter, Genetic Algorithm, Decoupling Capacitors, Optimization

**Main points**

- Proposes a Genetic Algorithm based method for optimizing the placement of decoupling capacitors in a PDN.
- Considers both the target impedance and the Power Supply Induced Jitter (PSIJ).
- Formulates the problem as a non-linear optimization problem, where the variables include the selection and placement of capacitors.
- Demonstrates that the proposed method can achieve an economic solution to the PDN design problem, minimizing both the number of decoupling capacitors and the PSIJ.

**Citation**

```
@article{xu2021jitter,
title={Jitter Aware Economic PDN Optimization with a Genetic Algorithm},
author={Zhifei Xu and Zihao Wang and Yin Sun and Chulsoon Hwang and Hervé Delingette and Jun Fan},
journal={IEEE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques},
year={2021},
doi={10.1109/TMTT.2021.3087188}
}
```
