---
layout: paper
category: papers
title: "Increased task-relevant fMRI responsiveness in comatose cardiac arrest patients is associated with improved neurologic outcomes"
image: /assets/images/papers/patch_based_registration.png
authors: Kiran Dhakal, Eric S Rosenthal, Annelise M Kulpanowski, Jacob A Dodelson, Zihao Wang, Gaston Cudemus-Deseda, Marjorie Villien, Brian L Edlow, Alexander M Presciutti, James L Januzzi, MingMing Ning, W Taylor Kimberly, Edilberto Amorim, M Brandon Westover, William A Copen, Pamela W Schaefer, Joseph T Giacino, David M Greer, Ona Wu
year: 2023
shortref: Kiran et al. (2023). JCBFM.
journal: "JCBFM."
pdf:
slides: 
supplement: 
github: 
doi: 
external_link: "https://arxiv.org/pdf/2105.01601.pdf"
type: substantive
---

# Abstract

Early prediction of the recovery of consciousness in comatose cardiac arrest patients remains challenging. We prospectively studied task-relevant fMRI responses in 19 comatose cardiac arrest patients and five healthy controls to assess the fMRI’s utility for neuroprognostication. Tasks involved instrumental music listening, forward and backward language listening, and motor imagery. Task-specific reference images were created from group-level fMRI responses from the healthy controls. Dice scores measured the overlap of individual subject-level fMRI responses with the reference images. Task-relevant responsiveness index (Rindex) was calculated as the maximum Dice score across the four tasks. Correlation analyses showed that increased Dice scores were significantly associated with arousal recovery (P < 0.05) and emergence from the minimally conscious state (EMCS) by one year (P < 0.001) for all tasks except motor imagery. Greater Rindex was significantly correlated with improved arousal recovery (P = 0.002) and consciousness (P = 0.001). For patients who survived to discharge (n = 6), the Rindex’s sensitivity was 75% for predicting EMCS (n = 4). Task-based fMRI holds promise for detecting covert consciousness in comatose cardiac arrest patients, but further studies are needed to confirm these findings. Caution is necessary when interpreting the absence of task-relevant fMRI responses as a surrogate for inevitable poor neurological prognosis.

**Key Words**:  fMRI, cardiac arrest, neuroprognostication, consciousness, coma, minimally conscious state

**Main points**

- Demonstrates that task-based fMRI holds promise for detecting covert consciousness in comatose cardiac arrest patients.

- Shows that increased Dice scores were significantly associated with arousal recovery and emergence from the minimally conscious state (EMCS) by one year for all tasks except motor imagery.

- Concludes that caution is necessary when interpreting the absence of task-relevant fMRI responses as a surrogate for inevitable poor neurological prognosis.

**Citation**

```
Dhakal K, Rosenthal ES, Kulpanowski AM, et al. Increased task-relevant fMRI responsiveness in comatose cardiac arrest patients is associated with improved neurologic outcomes. Journal of Cerebral Blood Flow & Metabolism. 2023;0(0). doi:10.1177/0271678X231197392
```
